In the current lesson, we will analyze the method of spawning various impact effects depending on the hit surface.
For example, if you hit the ground, then one impact effect spawns, if you hit the character, then another.
And if we hit the character's head, then we spawn the headshot effect. This method can also be
used to inflict different quantitative damage depending on the hit in different
parts of the character's body. Rename NS_BaseImpact to NS_DefaultImpact.
We will spawn this system by default if we cannot determine which surface we hit.
We open the Niagara system. Change the color of the particles to a shade of dark.
We copy this system using Ctrl + W. The new Niagara system is called GroundImpact.
This system will spawn if we hit the floor of our world, or the steps. We make another copy.
We call the new Niagara system BodyImpact. We will spawn it if we hit the character's body.
And the last Niagara system that we need will be called HeadImpact.
We will spawn it when it hits the character's head. Let's save all the assets. We will not touch on the
design of particle systems for now . Let's change only the color coding. Open up GroundImpact
and change the color to green in Initial Particles.
Opening BodyImpact. We set the color to red.
HeadImpact is also red, just a little darker.
Also change the number of particles in the SpawnBurst property. Let it be 200.
We have prepared with you all the impact effects that we need. Only one emitter was used.
And they simply redefined some parameters in specific Niagara systems, which is quite convenient.
Create a new folder. Let's call it PhysMaterials and consider a new type of asset called Physical Material.
This type of asset is used to set the physical characteristics of an object.
To create it, right-click in the Content Browser and select Physical Material in the Physics category.
An additional window opens. Select Physical Material from the list and press Select.
The first material is called PhysMatGround. This physical material will be assigned to the floor or staircase.
If we open this type of asset, we will see various physical characteristics that can be overridden.
If an object has physics simulation enabled, then it will interact with other
objects according to our settings. The material has a special property Surface,
which allows you to create your own type of surface and, depending on this type of surface, spawn the effect we need.
Physical materials may differ slightly in their parameters, but they may have the same Surface type.
For now, we can do without this additional property and define the surface
solely from physical materials. Physical parameters do not make sense for us, because we
do not use these assets for physical simulation, but only use them to define the surface.
Created three physical materials: body, ground and head. Let's see how
you can install them. The floor in our scene is not a mesh, it is geometry. You
cannot assign a physical material for this kind of asset. We will convert it to a mesh later, but for now you can
drag any geometric object into the scene and in the details panel find it in the PhysMaterialOverride collision category.
Install the PhysMaterialGround asset.
Let's go into the character's mesh and set up the physical materials for his collisions.
Choosing a character. Moving on to the skeletal mesh, into the physics category. The mesh has collisions that
we directly hit when we shoot. Set all collisions to the appropriate
physical material. We have only 2. Set the Head for the head.
And for all the rest, set Body. I will speed up the video of routine work. If necessary, we can always
create additional physical materials
and make different impact effects when hitting different parts of the body.
Having installed all the necessary physical materials, now let's see in C ++ how you can
spawn the appropriate Niagara systems depending on the given physical materials.
In order for the class of physical material to become available in our project,
it is necessary to connect an additional module called PhysicsCore.
Go to the WeaponFX component, into the header file. First, let's rename the Effect variable to DefaultEffect.
We will spawn this niagara system when we hit an object for which we cannot determine the
physical material. We need to match each physical material to the effect
that we want to spawn when we get into it.The data structure that suits us is
called TMap - an internal implementation of an associative container in Unreal Engine that stores data
as a key + value combination. This container is generic - it accepts the types that we want to store in it.
We will use the physical material as the key, and the Niagara system as the value.
The data type for the physical material is called UPhysicalMaterial. We name our container EffectsMap.
Add a forward declaration on top for the UPhysicalMaterial class.
And go to the .cpp file of our component. We include the header file of the physical material.
Let's go to the PlayImpactFX function. The spawn effect will take place at the very end.
Let's name the variable Effect and assign it the default value of the effect, DefaultEffect. Also, in the call to the spawn function,
we do not have to change the name of the variable, it will be the same - Effect.
We have a default value, but it can change. It will depend on where we got to.
The HitResult object has a field that contains information about the physical material.
The field is named PhysMaterial. This variable is of type WeakObject. Again, this is the internal
implementation of weak pointers in the Unreal Engine. If you are not familiar with the concepts of shared, I recommend that you study this issue
in the C ++ documentation for a weak pointer . At the moment, we need to know the following: this pointer also needs
to be checked for validity. This is done using the IsValid function. If this function returns true,
then our object is valid and we can access the raw pointer using the Get function.
We create an additional variable PhysMat. We assign it a raw pointer
to a physical material, that is, if we hit a given
point in the code, then some physical material is returned to us. Now we need to check if there is a
special effect for the given physical material in our container.
To do this, we call a special container function called Contains.
This function checks if the key that we pass to it as an argument exists in our TMap container.
If this key exists, then we can pick up the corresponding value and override the effect
that we are going to spawn. To access the value by key, the parenthesis operator [] is used.
In this operator we pass our PhysMat pointer. The spawn function is ready. We just need to add
some settings. Physical material is not passed in the HitResult parameter by default.
This is done from an optimization point of view. In the MakeHit function, in CollisionParams, we must explicitly indicate
that we want the physical material to go into the final HitResult object. To do this, set
the bReturnPhysicalMaterial flag to true. And a similar setting needs to be done for projectile.
In projectile, HitResult is defined directly on collision collision. The property that is responsible
for returning the physical material is called bReturnMaterialOnMove. We also set the value to true. We launch the project.
Open the rifle blueprint. Go to the FX component of the weapon.
Set DefaultImpact to the default effect. EffectsMap also appeared. Click on the plus and collect
assets in pairs, that is, the physical body material corresponds to BodyImpact, ground corresponds to GroundImpact.
And the physical material head matches HeadImpact.
Right click on property. Press Copy and go to blueprint projectile, weaponFX component.
Right click on the effects map, choose Paste. And the default effect is set to DefaultImpact.
That is, the set of effects for rifle shooting and for projectile is still the same for us. We will also add some kind of mesh,
which we will not set the physical material to. One more thing, let's while testing, install
BulletSpread on a smaller rifle so that it approximately shoots at the same point for clarity.
We launch and start checking. The cube has a physical material ground - a green particle system spawns.
The cylinder is black, the floor also has no physical material, and if we shoot at the character, then it is red.
And on headshot spawns a big headshot effect. Let's change weapons, check the launcher.
Particle systems spawn the same, because we have the same effect cards at the moment.
Projectile is a special case, so let's make it one explosion effect for all surfaces.
Create a new niagara system and select the new system from template option, click next.
Choose the SimpleExplosion template.
We name the asset NS_ProjectileImpact.
We open the asset. We also see that the momentum is set along the z-axis, but we need to do it along the x-axis.
If you click on the person on an effect, only the selected effect will be played.
Select the AddVelocityFromPoint property from the emitter and change the value of the x and z axis.
Going further, the next effect.
We also click on the little man. This is the familiar arrow particle system. Change x and z in the AddVelocityFromPoint property.
And it's the same in the latest particle system in the AddVelocityFromPoint property.
Our entire effect spawns along the x-axis. Go to projectile in the FX component. Remove EffectsMap completely
and set the just created projectile impact to the default effect. We start the game.
We switch to the launcher, shoot, and now it doesn't matter where we got to, the explosion particle system spawns.
In this way, you can add as many physical materials and their corresponding effects as you want.